.TH LIXPLORE 1 "December 2024" "lixplore 1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lixplore \- Academic literature search and export tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lixplore
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lixplore
is a command-line tool for searching academic literature across multiple databases 
(PubMed, Crossref, DOAJ, EuropePMC, arXiv) and exporting results in various formats 
(CSV, Excel, JSON, BibTeX, RIS, EndNote, XML).

All exports are automatically organized into format-specific folders within the 
.I exports/
directory.

.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Source Selection"
.TP
.BR \-P ", " \-\-pubmed
Search PubMed (biomedical and life sciences literature)
.TP
.BR \-C ", " \-\-crossref
Search Crossref (scholarly works with DOIs)
.TP
.BR \-J ", " \-\-doaj
Search DOAJ (Directory of Open Access Journals)
.TP
.BR \-E ", " \-\-europepmc
Search EuropePMC (Europe PubMed Central)
.TP
.BR \-x ", " \-\-arxiv
Search arXiv (preprint repository for physics, math, CS, etc.)
.TP
.BR \-A ", " \-\-all
Search ALL sources at once
.TP
.BR \-s " \fICODES\fR, " \-\-sources " \fICODES\fR"
Combined source selection using codes: P=PubMed, C=Crossref, J=DOAJ,
E=EuropePMC, X=arXiv, A=All
.br
Example: \fB-s PX\fR for PubMed+arXiv, \fB-s PCE\fR for PubMed+Crossref+EuropePMC
.TP
.BR \-\-custom\-api " \fINAME\fR"
Use a custom API source (Springer, BASE, etc.). Must be configured in ~/.lixplore/apis/ or ~/.lixplore/custom_apis.json. Allows integration with any API via simple JSON configuration (see --create-api-examples).
.br
Example: \fB--custom-api springer -q "quantum physics"\fR

.SS "Search Parameters"
.TP
.BR \-q " \fITEXT\fR, " \-\-query " \fITEXT\fR"
Search query string. Supports Boolean operators for advanced queries:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fBAND\fR - Both terms required (e.g., "cancer AND treatment")
.IP \(bu 2
\fBOR\fR - Either term (e.g., "cancer OR tumor")
.IP \(bu 2
\fBNOT\fR - Exclude term (e.g., "diabetes NOT type1")
.IP \(bu 2
\fBParentheses\fR - Group terms (e.g., "(cancer OR tumor) AND treatment")
.RE
.IP
Examples: \fB-q "cancer treatment"\fR | \fB-q "cancer AND treatment"\fR | \fB-q "(cancer OR tumor) AND treatment"\fR
.TP
.BR \-au " \fINAME\fR, " \-\-author " \fINAME\fR"
Search by author name
.br
Example: \fB-au "Smith J"\fR
.TP
.BR \-DOI " \fIDOI\fR, " \-\-doi " \fIDOI\fR"
Search for a specific article by DOI
.br
Example: \fB-DOI "10.1038/nature12345"\fR
.TP
.BR \-m " \fIN\fR, " \-\-max_results " \fIN\fR"
Maximum number of results to fetch per source (default: 10)
.br
Example: \fB-m 50\fR

.SS "Filtering & Processing"
.TP
.BR \-d " \fIFROM TO\fR, " \-\-date " \fIFROM TO\fR"
Filter by publication date range in YYYY-MM-DD format
.br
Example: \fB-d 2020-01-01 2024-12-31\fR
.TP
.BR \-D " [\fISTRATEGY\fR], " \-\-deduplicate " [\fISTRATEGY\fR]"
Remove duplicate results when searching multiple sources (recommended with \fB-A\fR or \fB-s\fR).
.br
Available strategies:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fBauto\fR - Default, uses DOI → title similarity → author matching
.IP \(bu 2
\fBstrict\fR - Higher similarity thresholds (0.95 for title matching)
.IP \(bu 2
\fBloose\fR - Lower similarity thresholds (0.75 for title matching)
.IP \(bu 2
\fBdoi_only\fR - Only match by DOI
.IP \(bu 2
\fBtitle_only\fR - Only match by title similarity
.RE
.IP
Example: \fB-D strict\fR
.TP
.BR \-\-dedup\-threshold " \fIFLOAT\fR"
Title similarity threshold for deduplication (0.0-1.0, default: 0.85)
.br
Example: \fB--dedup-threshold 0.9\fR
.TP
.BR \-\-dedup\-keep " \fISTRATEGY\fR"
Which duplicate to keep when multiple matches found. Options:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fBfirst\fR - Keep the first occurrence
.IP \(bu 2
\fBmost_complete\fR - Keep entry with most metadata fields filled
.IP \(bu 2
\fBprefer_doi\fR - Prefer entries that have DOIs
.RE
.IP
Example: \fB--dedup-keep most_complete\fR
.TP
.BR \-\-dedup\-merge
Merge metadata from all duplicate entries (combines best data from each duplicate)
.br
Example: \fB-D strict --dedup-merge\fR
.TP
.BR \-\-sort " \fIORDER\fR"
Sort results by specified order. Options:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fBrelevant\fR - Default, original API order (most relevant first)
.IP \(bu 2
\fBnewest\fR - Latest publications first (by year, descending)
.IP \(bu 2
\fBoldest\fR - Earliest publications first (by year, ascending)
.IP \(bu 2
\fBjournal\fR - Alphabetical by journal name
.IP \(bu 2
\fBauthor\fR - Alphabetical by first author's last name
.RE
.IP
Example: \fB--sort newest\fR
.TP
.BR \-\-enrich " [\fIAPI\fR ...]"
Enrich article metadata by fetching additional information from external APIs.
.br
Available APIs:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fBcrossref\fR - CrossRef API (DOI resolution, journal info, citations)
.IP \(bu 2
\fBpubmed\fR - PubMed API (biomedical literature metadata)
.IP \(bu 2
\fBarxiv\fR - arXiv API (preprint metadata)
.IP \(bu 2
\fBall\fR - Use all available APIs (default if no APIs specified)
.RE
.IP
Enrichment fills in missing fields, validates DOIs, and improves metadata quality.
.br
Examples: \fB--enrich\fR (all APIs) | \fB--enrich crossref\fR | \fB--enrich crossref pubmed\fR

.SS "Display Options"
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-abstract
Display abstracts along with titles in the results
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-interactive
Launch interactive TUI mode for browsing results. Navigate with keyboard commands: next/prev pages, view details, select articles, export. Requires 'rich' library for enhanced display (falls back to simple mode).
.br
Example: \fB-P -q "cancer" -m 50 -i\fR
.TP
.BR \-N " \fIN\fR [\fIN\fR ...], " \-\-number " \fIN\fR [\fIN\fR ...]"
View detailed information for specific article(s) by number
.br
Example: \fB-N 1\fR or \fB-N 1 2 3\fR
.TP
.BR \-R " \fIN\fR [\fIN\fR ...], " \-\-review " \fIN\fR [\fIN\fR ...]"
Open article(s) in separate terminal window for detailed review. Works in two modes:
.br
1. Combined with search: \fB-P -q "query" -R 1 2 3\fR
.br
2. Standalone (from cached results): \fBlixplore -R 1 2 3\fR
.br
In the review window, press \fBq\fR or \fBCtrl+C\fR to close.
.br
Example: \fB-R 1\fR or \fB-R 1 2 3\fR
.TP
.BR \-\-stat
Show comprehensive statistics dashboard with visualizations including publication trends by year, top journals, top authors, and source distribution
.br
Example: \fB-P -q "AI" -m 100 --stat\fR
.TP
.BR \-\-stat\-top " \fIN\fR"
Number of top items to show in statistics rankings (default: 10). Use with --stat.
.br
Example: \fB--stat --stat-top 15\fR
.TP
.BR \-p " \fIN\fR, " \-\-page " \fIN\fR"
Page number to display when results exceed page size (default: 1). Automatic pagination activates when results > 20.
.br
Example: \fB-P -q "cancer" -m 100 -p 2\fR
.TP
.BR \-\-page\-size " \fIN\fR"
Number of results to display per page (default: 20)
.br
Example: \fB-P -q "research" -m 100 --page-size 50\fR
.TP
.BR \-\-show\-pdf\-links
Display PDF links for open access articles directly in search results. Automatically checks PMC (PubMed Central), arXiv, and Unpaywall for available PDFs. Links are clickable in modern terminals (iTerm2, GNOME Terminal 3.x+, Konsole, Windows Terminal). No download required - simply click to open in browser.
.br
Example: \fB-x -q "machine learning" -m 10 --show-pdf-links\fR

.SS "Export & Output"
.TP
.BR \-X " \fIFORMAT\fR, " \-\-export " \fIFORMAT\fR"
Export results to specified format. Supports batch export with comma-separated formats.
.br
Available formats:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fBcsv\fR - CSV format (Excel, Google Sheets)
.IP \(bu 2
\fBxlsx\fR - Microsoft Excel format with formatting
.IP \(bu 2
\fBjson\fR - JSON structured data
.IP \(bu 2
\fBbibtex\fR - BibTeX format for LaTeX citations
.IP \(bu 2
\fBris\fR - RIS format (Zotero, Mendeley, RefWorks)
.IP \(bu 2
\fBenw\fR - EndNote Tagged format (recommended for EndNote)
.IP \(bu 2
\fBendnote\fR - EndNote XML format
.IP \(bu 2
\fBxml\fR - Generic XML format
.RE
.IP
Files are automatically saved to \fIexports/\fR folder
.br
Examples: \fB-X csv\fR | \fB-X csv,bibtex,ris\fR (batch export)
.TP
.BR \-o " \fIFILE\fR, " \-\-output " \fIFILE\fR"
Custom output filename for export (default: auto-generated with timestamp)
.br
Example: \fB-o my_results.csv\fR
.TP
.BR \-S " \fISELECTION\fR [\fISELECTION\fR ...], " \-\-select " \fISELECTION\fR [\fISELECTION\fR ...]"
Select specific article(s) to export. Supports multiple selection patterns:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fBNumbers\fR - Individual articles (e.g., 1 3 5)
.IP \(bu 2
\fBRanges\fR - Article ranges (e.g., 1-10, 5-15)
.IP \(bu 2
\fBodd\fR - All odd-numbered articles
.IP \(bu 2
\fBeven\fR - All even-numbered articles
.IP \(bu 2
\fBfirst:N\fR or \fBtop:N\fR - First N articles
.IP \(bu 2
\fBlast:N\fR - Last N articles
.RE
.IP
Without this flag, all results are exported.
.br
Examples: \fB-S 1 3 5\fR | \fB-S odd\fR | \fB-S 1-10\fR | \fB-S first:5\fR | \fB-S last:3\fR
.TP
.BR \-\-export\-fields " \fIFIELD\fR [\fIFIELD\fR ...]"
Select specific fields to export. Available fields: title, authors, abstract, journal, year, doi, url, source
.br
Example: \fB--export-fields title authors year doi\fR
.TP
.BR \-\-zip
Compress exported file(s) to ZIP format
.br
Example: \fB-X csv --zip\fR
.TP
.BR \-c " \fISTYLE\fR, " \-\-citations " \fISTYLE\fR"
Export as formatted citations. Available styles: apa, mla, chicago, ieee
.br
Example: \fB-c apa\fR or \fB--citations apa\fR
.TP
.BR \-\-download\-pdf
Download full-text PDFs for search results. Automatically tries multiple sources in priority order: PubMed Central (open access), arXiv (preprints), DOI resolution (Unpaywall), and optionally SciHub. PDFs saved to ~/Lixplore_PDFs/ organized by source.
.br
Example: \fB-P -q "open access" -m 10 --download-pdf\fR
.TP
.BR \-\-pdf\-numbers " \fIN\fR [\fIN\fR ...]"
Download PDFs only for specific article numbers. Use with --download-pdf.
.br
Example: \fB--download-pdf --pdf-numbers 1 3 5\fR
.TP
.BR \-\-use\-scihub
Use SciHub as fallback for PDF download (requires SciHub mirror configuration via --set-scihub-mirror). Use at your own discretion and respect copyright laws.
.br
Example: \fB--download-pdf --use-scihub\fR
.TP
.BR \-\-add\-to\-zotero
Add search results directly to Zotero library via API. Requires Zotero API configuration (see --configure-zotero).
.br
Example: \fB-P -q "research" -m 10 --add-to-zotero\fR
.TP
.BR \-\-zotero\-collection " \fIKEY\fR"
Zotero collection key to add items to. Use with --add-to-zotero. Get collection keys with --show-zotero-collections.
.br
Example: \fB--add-to-zotero --zotero-collection ABC123\fR
.TP
.BR \-\-export\-for\-mendeley
Export results as RIS file for Mendeley Desktop import. Mendeley doesn't provide a public API, so RIS export is used for compatibility.
.br
Example: \fB-P -q "biology" -m 30 --export-for-mendeley\fR
.TP
.BR \-\-save\-profile " \fINAME\fR"
Save current export settings as a reusable profile
.br
Example: \fB--save-profile my_nature_export\fR
.TP
.BR \-\-load\-profile " \fINAME\fR"
Load previously saved export profile
.br
Example: \fB--load-profile my_nature_export\fR
.TP
.BR \-\-template " \fINAME\fR"
Use predefined export template. Available templates: nature, science, ieee
.br
Example: \fB--template nature\fR

.SS "Utility"
.TP
.BR \-H ", " \-\-history
Show search history
.TP
.BR \-\-refresh
Bypass cache and fetch fresh results. Normally, search results are cached for 7 days to improve performance. This flag forces a fresh search ignoring the cache.
.br
Example: \fB-P -q "cancer" -m 50 --refresh\fR
.TP
.BR \-\-examples
Show quick examples (tldr-style) and exit
.TP
.BR \-\-list\-profiles
List all saved export profiles
.TP
.BR \-\-delete\-profile " \fINAME\fR"
Delete a saved export profile
.br
Example: \fB--delete-profile my_export\fR
.TP
.BR \-\-list\-templates
List all available export templates (built-in and user-defined)
.TP
.BR \-\-list\-custom\-apis
List all configured custom API sources with their descriptions
.TP
.BR \-\-create\-api\-examples
Create example custom API configuration files for Springer and BASE. Use these as templates to configure your own APIs.
.br
Example: \fB--create-api-examples\fR
.TP
.BR \-\-set\-scihub\-mirror " \fIURL\fR"
Configure SciHub mirror URL for PDF downloads. Required for --use-scihub.
.br
Example: \fB--set-scihub-mirror https://sci-hub.se\fR
.TP
.BR \-\-show\-pdf\-dir
Show PDF download directory location and count of downloaded PDFs
.TP
.BR \-\-configure\-zotero " \fIAPI_KEY\fR \fIUSER_ID\fR"
Configure Zotero API access for direct library integration. Required for --add-to-zotero functionality.
.br
.B "Setup steps:"
.RS
.IP "1." 4
Go to https://www.zotero.org/settings/keys
.IP "2." 4
Click "Create new private key"
.IP "3." 4
Enable "Allow library access" and "Allow write access"
.IP "4." 4
Copy the generated API key (shown once only)
.IP "5." 4
Note your User ID displayed at the top of the page
.IP "6." 4
Run: \fB--configure-zotero YOUR_API_KEY YOUR_USER_ID\fR
.RE
.br
Example: \fB--configure-zotero abc123XYZ789key 1234567\fR
.TP
.BR \-\-show\-zotero\-collections
List all Zotero collections with their names and keys. Use the collection key with --zotero-collection to add items to specific collections.
.br
Example: \fB--show-zotero-collections\fR
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help message and exit

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B Basic search:
.nf
lixplore -P -q "cancer treatment" -m 10
.fi
.TP
.B Multi-source search with export:
.nf
lixplore -s PX -q "machine learning" -m 20 -X xlsx -o ml_papers.xlsx
.fi
.TP
.B Search all sources with deduplication:
.nf
lixplore -A -q "COVID-19" -m 50 -D -X csv
.fi
.TP
.B Search with date filter and abstracts:
.nf
lixplore -P -q "diabetes" -d 2020-01-01 2024-12-31 -m 15 -a
.fi
.TP
.B Search by author:
.nf
lixplore -P -au "Smith J" -m 10 -a
.fi
.TP
.B Boolean operators in queries:
.nf
# AND operator (both terms required)
lixplore -P -q "cancer AND treatment" -m 10

# OR operator (either term)
lixplore -P -q "cancer OR tumor" -m 10

# NOT operator (exclude term)
lixplore -P -q "diabetes NOT type1" -m 10

# Complex query with parentheses
lixplore -P -q "(cancer OR tumor) AND (treatment OR therapy)" -m 20
.fi
.TP
.B Export to EndNote:
.nf
lixplore -P -q "neuroscience" -m 30 -X enw -o neuro_papers.enw
.fi
.TP
.B Review articles in separate terminal (two-step workflow):
.nf
# Step 1: Search and cache results
lixplore -P -q "paracetamol" -m 10

# Step 2: Review specific articles from cache
lixplore -R 1 5 9

# In review window: Press 'q' or Ctrl+C to close
.fi
.TP
.B Review during search (one-step):
.nf
lixplore -P -q "diabetes" -m 20 -R 1 3 5
.fi
.TP
.B Sort results and export selected:
.nf
# Get newest papers, export top 10
lixplore -P -q "cancer" -m 50 --sort newest -S first:10 -X xlsx

# Get oldest papers
lixplore -P -q "history" -m 50 --sort oldest -X csv
.fi
.TP
.B Smart selection patterns:
.nf
# Export odd-numbered articles
lixplore -P -q "research" -m 50 -S odd -X csv

# Export articles 10-20
lixplore -P -q "science" -m 50 -S 10-20 -X xlsx

# Export first 15 and last 5
lixplore -P -q "study" -m 50 -S first:15 last:5 -X enw
.fi
.TP
.B Citation style export:
.nf
# Export as APA citations
lixplore -P -q "climate change" -m 20 -c apa -o citations.txt

# Export as IEEE citations
lixplore -P -q "robotics" -m 15 -c ieee
.fi
.TP
.B Batch export to multiple formats:
.nf
# Export to CSV, BibTeX, and RIS simultaneously
lixplore -P -q "machine learning" -m 30 -X csv,bibtex,ris

# Batch export with compression
lixplore -P -q "AI research" -m 50 -X csv,json,ris --zip
.fi
.TP
.B Export with field filtering:
.nf
# Export only specific fields
lixplore -P -q "biology" -m 25 -X csv --export-fields title authors year doi

# Minimal export for quick reference
lixplore -P -q "chemistry" -m 50 -X json --export-fields title doi
.fi
.TP
.B Metadata enrichment:
.nf
# Enrich using all APIs
lixplore -P -q "genomics" -m 20 --enrich -X bibtex

# Enrich using specific APIs
lixplore -P -q "physics" -m 30 --enrich crossref pubmed -X xlsx

# Enrich with field filtering
lixplore -P -q "medicine" -m 25 --enrich --export-fields title authors doi year -X csv
.fi
.TP
.B Pagination and browsing:
.nf
# View results page by page
lixplore -P -q "cancer" -m 100 -p 1              # Page 1 (results 1-20)
lixplore -P -q "cancer" -m 100 -p 2              # Page 2 (results 21-40)

# Custom page size
lixplore -P -q "research" -m 100 --page-size 50 -p 1

# Interactive mode for easy browsing
lixplore -P -q "AI" -m 50 -i
# In interactive: use n/p for pages, v to view, s to select, e to export
.fi
.TP
.B Statistics dashboard:
.nf
# Show comprehensive statistics
lixplore -P -q "machine learning" -m 100 --stat

# Show top 20 items in rankings
lixplore -A -q "COVID-19" -m 200 --stat --stat-top 20

# Statistics with deduplication
lixplore -A -q "cancer research" -m 150 -D --stat
.fi
.TP
.B PDF downloads:
.nf
# Download PDFs for all results
lixplore -P -q "open access" -m 10 --download-pdf

# Download specific articles
lixplore -P -q "research" -m 50 --download-pdf --pdf-numbers 1 3 5

# Configure SciHub and use as fallback
lixplore --set-scihub-mirror https://sci-hub.se
lixplore -P -q "article" -m 20 --download-pdf --use-scihub

# Check PDF directory
lixplore --show-pdf-dir
.fi
.TP
.B PDF link display (no download required):
.nf
# Show clickable PDF links in search results
lixplore -x -q "neural networks" -m 10 --show-pdf-links

# Combine with abstracts
lixplore -P -q "cancer" -m 20 -a --show-pdf-links

# Multi-source search with PDF links
lixplore -A -q "COVID-19" -m 50 -D --show-pdf-links

# Works in modern terminals - links are clickable!
.fi
.TP
.B Custom API sources:
.nf
# Create example configurations
lixplore --create-api-examples

# List configured APIs
lixplore --list-custom-apis

# Search using Springer API (after configuration)
lixplore --custom-api springer -q "quantum physics" -m 20

# Combine with standard sources
lixplore -P --custom-api base -q "biology" -m 30 -D
.fi
.TP
.B Reference manager integration (Zotero & Mendeley):
.nf
# Step 1: Configure Zotero API credentials (one-time setup)
# Get API key from: https://www.zotero.org/settings/keys
# Your User ID is shown at the top of that page
lixplore --configure-zotero abc123XYZ789yourKey 1234567

# Step 2: List your Zotero collections to get collection keys
lixplore --show-zotero-collections

# Step 3: Add articles to main Zotero library
lixplore -P -q "machine learning" -m 10 --add-to-zotero

# Step 4: Add to specific Zotero collection (use key from step 2)
lixplore -P -q "AI research" -m 20 --add-to-zotero --zotero-collection 4FCVPNAP

# How to get collection key:
#   Web: https://www.zotero.org → Click collection → Copy key from URL
#   Desktop: Right-click collection → Copy Collection Key (or use --show-zotero-collections)

# Combine with deduplication and sorting
lixplore -A -q "COVID-19" -m 50 -D --sort newest --add-to-zotero --zotero-collection 4FCVPNAP

# Export for Mendeley Desktop
lixplore -P -q "biology" -m 30 --export-for-mendeley
.fi
.TP
.B Cache management:
.nf
# Normal search uses cache if < 7 days old
lixplore -P -q "cancer" -m 50

# Force refresh (bypass cache)
lixplore -P -q "cancer" -m 50 --refresh

# Review cached results later
lixplore -R 1 5 9
.fi
.TP
.B Enhanced deduplication:
.nf
# Strict deduplication with metadata merging
lixplore -A -q "cancer research" -m 100 -D strict --dedup-merge -X xlsx

# Custom threshold deduplication
lixplore -A -q "biology" -m 50 -D --dedup-threshold 0.9 --dedup-keep most_complete
.fi
.TP
.B Export profiles:
.nf
# Save current settings as profile
lixplore -P -q "test" -X bibtex --sort newest --save-profile my_nature_export

# Load and use saved profile
lixplore -P -q "new search" -m 30 --load-profile my_nature_export

# List all profiles
lixplore --list-profiles

# Delete a profile
lixplore --delete-profile old_profile
.fi
.TP
.B Export templates:
.nf
# Use Nature journal template
lixplore -P -q "genetics" -m 25 --template nature

# Use IEEE template
lixplore -P -q "engineering" -m 30 --template ieee

# List available templates
lixplore --list-templates
.fi
.TP
.B Advanced comprehensive workflow:
.nf
# Search all sources, deduplicate, enrich, filter fields, batch export, compress
lixplore -A -q "machine learning" -m 100 -D strict --dedup-merge \\
  --enrich --export-fields title authors doi year journal \\
  -X csv,bibtex --zip --save-profile ml_comprehensive

# Search with template and enrichment
lixplore -P -C -q "cancer AND treatment" -m 50 -D \\
  --enrich crossref --template nature -X bibtex
.fi

.SH EXPORT LOCATIONS
All exports are automatically saved to organized folders:
.TP
.I exports/csv/
CSV files
.TP
.I exports/citations/
Formatted citation files (APA, MLA, Chicago, IEEE)
.TP
.I exports/excel/
Microsoft Excel files (.xlsx)
.TP
.I exports/json/
JSON files
.TP
.I exports/bibtex/
BibTeX files (.bib)
.TP
.I exports/ris/
RIS files
.TP
.I exports/endnote_tagged/
EndNote Tagged format files (.enw)
.TP
.I exports/endnote_xml/
EndNote XML files
.TP
.I exports/xml/
Generic XML files

.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.lixplore_cache.json
Cache file for search results (7-day retention)
.TP
.I ~/.lixplore/profiles.json
Saved export profiles for reusable configurations
.TP
.I ~/.lixplore/templates/
User-defined custom export templates
.TP
.I ./exports/
Directory containing all exported files, organized by format

.SH ENVIRONMENT
No specific environment variables are required.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
Error (no sources specified, no query provided, etc.)

.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/pryndor/Lixplore_cli/issues

.SH AUTHOR
Written by the Lixplore development team.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2024 Lixplore Contributors.
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pubmed (1),
.BR arxiv (1),
.BR crossref (1)

.SH NOTES
When searching multiple sources, using the \fB-D\fR flag is recommended to remove 
duplicate results. The tool caches results for 7 days to improve performance on 
repeated searches.

.B Review Window Controls:
When using \fB-R\fR flag, articles open in separate terminal windows. To close a 
review window, press \fBq\fR (quit) or \fBCtrl+C\fR (interrupt). The window will 
not close with other keys, preventing accidental closes while reading.

.B Two-Step Review Workflow:
Search results are automatically cached, allowing you to review articles in a 
separate command without re-searching. This is useful for browsing titles first, 
then reviewing detailed information for selected articles.

For more detailed information and tutorials, visit the project documentation at:
.br
https://github.com/pryndor/Lixplore_cli
